<h2>Sick Around the World</h2>
<p>This is a documentary by the American journalist T.R. Reid. Reid wrote a highly regarded book <em>The healing of America : a global quest for better, cheaper, and fairer health care</em>. Despite its American-centric title, the book is actually a nice comparison of healthcare systems across the world. Two limitations of this book are 1) its age (published in 2010) and 2) the narrowness of his comparison, which was based on his own shoulder injury, I believe.</p>
<p>A more uptodate comparison is <em>Which Country has the World's Best Health Care?</em> by Ezekiel J. Emanuel, an American oncologist and bioethicist at the University of Pennsylvania. Unlike Reid, Emanuel includes Australia and has a broader basis for comparison.</p>
<blockquote>
<p>Another reason I dislike this ranking system is that I have read many different rankings of health care systems&mdash;none of which agree. The granddaddy of rankings is the World Health Organization (WHO)&rsquo;s World Health Report 2000, which ranked the health care systems of 191 countries. France won, followed by Italy, with the United States coming in a distant 37th. Many people still cite this ranking, implying it is the definitive criterion of system success. But there are reasons not to take it seriously. First, it was published nearly 20 years ago and has not been updated. Second, it focused on 5 broad categories of care and weighted them haphazardly. Third, its methodologies have been roundly criticized as favoring certain countries&mdash;notably France. But most importantly, it doesn&rsquo;t pass the common-sense test. The idea that the health care systems of Oman or Greece or Portugal or Colombia or Cyprus are all ranked higher than the United States might be believable, but they are all ranked higher than Germany, Canada, Australia, and Denmark as well.</p>
<p>Those results should raise more than a few skeptical eyebrows. Indeed, it led 2 British health economists to wryly observe that there was a &ldquo;significant relationship between a country&rsquo;s FIFA [soccer] ranking and its ranking by the WHO. Taken at face value, the statistical analysis suggests that, if the national football [soccer] team does well, the WHO score improves.&rdquo; The WHO&rsquo;s authors&rsquo; use of fancy equations and colored graphs to justify the rankings does not make the results seem more plausible; it only conjures up Mark Twain&rsquo;s comment that &ldquo;there are three kinds of lies: lies, damned lies, and statistics.&rdquo; (Emanuel, Ezekiel J. Which Country Has the World's Best Health Care?, p. 11)</p>
</blockquote>
<p>While I agree with Emanuel that simple, one-dimensional rankings are not particularly meaningful, but comparisons are very useful in learning to think differently about your own system, especially from the perspective of designing interventions, whether they be political or technical. Personally, I never liked the USA healthcare system more than since I've been here in Australia. Why? Well other than nostalgia, two areas that Australia performs poorly in Emanuel's assessment include out-of-pocket expenses and 2) coordination of care for chronic illnesses, of which I have several.</p>
<p>Emanuel list 7 challenges that <strong>every</strong> country's health system faces (pp. 17-20).</p>
<ol>
<li>Cost pressure.</li>
<li>High and rising cost of drugs.</li>
<li>Inefficiencies and unnecessary care in the system.</li>
<li>Coordination of care for patients with chronic illnesses.</li>
<li>Mismatches between health care delivery institutions and the population&rsquo;s chronic health care needs.</li>
<li>Provision of mental health care.</li>
<li>how to provide and pay for long-term care&nbsp;</li>
</ol>
<p>How could informatics relate to these seven challenges? Some of the seven have very direct connections (e.g. "inefficiencies and unnecessary care in the system" and "coordination of care for patients with chronic illnesses.") but I would suggest that informatics solutions have been proposed for each one of the seven challenges.</p>
<p>The European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies publishes detailed descriptions of many country's health systems (not comparisons) in their <a title="Link" href="https://www.euro.who.int/en/about-us/partners/observatory/publications/health-system-reviews-hits/full-list-of-country-hits" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Health Systems in Transition</a> series.</p>
<p>The Commonwealth Fund publishes an annual description of healthcare systems in <a title="Link" href="http:///%20https://www.commonwealthfund.org/international-health-policy-center/countries" target="_blank" rel="noopener">INTERNATIONAL HEALTH CARE SYSTEM PROFILES</a>. This series has a particualr interest in the implementation of electronic health records. You can see their 2020 comparison of EHR implementations here:&nbsp; <a title="Link" href="https://www.commonwealthfund.org/international-health-policy-center/system-features/what-status-electronic-health-records" target="_blank" rel="noopener">What is the status of electronic health records in different countries?</a></p>
<h2><a title="Link" href="https://www.pbs.org/wgbh/frontline/film/sickaroundtheworld/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Watch Sick Around the World</a></h2>
<p>I apologize that this is a long video without a break (you can play it back at increased speed!).</p>
<p>The <a title="Link" href="https://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/sickaroundtheworld/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">website</a> for the documentary has a number of useful resources</p>
<h3>Optional: Watch an interview with Ezekiel Emanuel</h3>
<p><a class="" title="Link" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Afu9jDbMfjQ" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Interview with Ezekiel Emanuel</a></p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
